.TH ENCLOV-START 1 "May 2025" "v0.1.0" "Enclov AI CLI Manual"
.SH NAME
enclov-start \- start Enclov AI container
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B enclov start
[\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBenclov start\fR command initializes and launches the full Enclov-AI container stack locally, including:

.IP \[bu] 2
FastAPI backend service
.IP \[bu]
Redis in-memory datastore
.IP \[bu]
Celery worker for async background jobs

This command requires Docker and Docker Compose to be installed and available in the system path.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR --help
Show usage information for the \fBstart\fR command and exit.
.TP
.BR --no-cache
Rebuild containers without using the Docker build cache.
.TP
.BR --config " <path>"
Path to custom environment configuration file (default: \fI.env\fR).

.SH EXAMPLES
Start Enclov with the default configuration:

.EX
$ enclov start
.EE

Start Enclov using a custom config file and rebuild containers:

.EX
$ enclov start --config .env.local --no-cache
.EE

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ENCLOV_ENV
Defines the runtime environment: \fBdevelopment\fR or \fBproduction\fR.
.TP
.B DOCKER_HOST
Specifies Docker daemon host, if not running locally.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful start
.TP
.B 1
Failed to launch services
.TP
.B 2
Invalid configuration or environment missing

.SH FILES
.TP
.B docker-compose.yml
Defines the core container services for enclov.
.TP
.B .env
Environment variable file loaded on start.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR enclov (1),
.BR enclov-stop (1),
.BR enclov-status (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Kubu Lee.

.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT License © 2025 Web4application.
